[Collatz Conjecture]: Approaches (#3308)
exercism/python: exercises/practice/collatz-conjecture/.articles/performance/content.md

# Performance

> In this approach, we'll find out how to most efficiently calculate Collatz Conjecture in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this approach, we'll find out how to most efficiently calculate the Collatz Conjecture in Python.
```

The [approaches page][approaches] lists three approaches to this exercise:

1. [Using recursion][approach-recursion]
2. [Using the ternary operator][approach-ternary-operator]
3. [Using the if/else][approach-if-else]

## Benchmarks

To benchmark the approaches, we wrote a [small benchmark application][benchmark-application] using the [`timeit`][timeit] library.

> These test were run in windows 11, using Python 3.11.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tests were run in windows 11, using Python 3.11.1.
```

```
Steps with recursion : 4.1499966755509377e-05
Steps with ternary : 2.1900050342082977e-05
Steps with if/else : 2.0900042727589607e-05
```

## Conclusion

> The fastest approach is the one using the ternary operator or the if/else statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fastest approach is the one using the `if/else` statement, followed by the one using the ternary operator/conditional expression.
```

> The slowest approach is the one using recursion, that is because Python isn't as optimized for recursion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The slowest approach is the one using recursion, probably because Python isn't as optimized for recursion as it is for iteration.
```
